Okay, so one of the most useful things
we can do with Shiny gadgets is
create interactive plots.
Now I know many of you are familiar with
Shiny syntax because we've already done
the modules on Shiny.
So we're not going to spend a lot of time
re-doing that in the context of Shiny
gadgets.
We're just going to go over one example,
and hopefully you'll be able to build and
generalize off of those using your
knowledge of Shiny and a little bit of
extra syntax that we need for
Shiny gadgets to put the two together and
do what you need in using Shing
gadgets as will be useful for you.
So what we want to do
in this example is plot
the trees data set, and
plot the girth by volume, and
have a cross hair where we can
select a rectangle, and that
our function will then output a data
frame of the trees from that rectangle.
Okay, so let's try and do this.
So again, we as always have to do
library(shiny) and library(mini) UI.
Our shiny gadget is a function, okay?
And we have to have a user interface.
And it's going to be
minipage from the mini UI.
We have a Title bar, gadgetTitleBar,
select points by dragging your mouse.
And then in the miniContentPanel, so
just in the main content
panel of our Shiny app,
we're going to have a plot and
the name of that plot is going to be plot,
okay?
So, and
we'll refer back to that here in a second,
when we get to the second
part of the code, okay?
We want the height to be 100%.
Just because that's going to make it look.
That's going to make it take up
as much of the page as we can.
And then this is an option is
to actually have the brush.
That's going to be the crosshairs
that select the point.
But notably, we're going to
name the brush, brush, okay?
So let's go to the server and remember
those two things we named plot and
brush, okay?
Where do those named outputs,
where do those named inputs come in,
in our server function?
Okay, output$plot Is going to
be this renderPlot statement.
And remember from Shiny, when we
render a plot to be displayed, it has
to have this kind of reactive notation
of a parenthesis then curly braces, and
you've gotta get them both,
otherwise it will give you an error.
So we're going to plot, the actual plot
that we're going to plot is going to plot
the data set trees girth by volume.
The title is going to be trees and
it's going to have an x label of girth and
a y label of volume.
Okay, so that's the plot that's
going to get passed back to the UI with
the variable named plot.
And then observeEvent, again we're
going to finish the app if it's done,
okay, and
we have our curly braces right here again.
And then we are going to stop
the app after we collect
the brush points which is just
after we select a rectangle
from the trees data set and
the input is $brush.
That's the variable from before when we
declared in our plots statement in UI and
named our brush, brush.
This is what we're using it here,
that's the input.
And then the xvar and the yvar here
have to be named the same thing.
And they have to be the correct
names from the data set trees, okay.
And then we have our run gadget statement.
So let's run this and see what it does and
hopefully you can see that this is kind of
starting to become a pretty useful tool.
Okay, so we're going to load up Shiny and
mini UI.
And again, you only have to do this
once if you've done it before.
If you have multiple gadgets.
But I'm doing it every time because
I'm often restarting the R server.
Or I'm sorry,
I'm off to restarting the R session.
So here's my Shiny gadget function,
pick trees.
Okay, now let me run it.
Doesn't take any arguments, there it is,
starts at the little server, and
here is my plot.
Okay, now what I can do is select say this
collection of points right here, okay?
And now that I've selected it and
I can actually move it around by the way.
But I want those points right there and
you can move the box in, okay.
Then when I click done,
and I go over here.
It's giving me those data points.
So you could, for example,
assign this to treesIPicked, okay.
And then when I do it, I click Done.
And if I do trees, there we go.
There they are.
So that's the way that you can,
in this case, this might be useful for
example if you wanted to pick outliers
from a data analysis where you want to
know specifically what points they were.
Notice it's keeping the original
data frame row numbers there so
you could actually refer back
to the data frame itself.
Okay, so just to be clear
about the naming, right, so
if I had named this plot1 for
example instead of plot and I redid it.
My plot doesn't show up and the reason is
because I named my plot plot, not plot1.
So let's cancel that,
we have an error there.
So let's say for example if we name
this brush1 instead of brush, okay?
Let's do it, okay.
Now when I run it,
it gives me no output, why?
Because it's looking for
input brush, not input brush1.
And input brush had no input.
Okay, so I hope this gives you some
tools that you can use and build on so
that you can start building
your own Shiny gadgets.
I think this is probably worth learning,
if only for the interactive graphics.
Because interactive graphics are so
useful, and
it's not something that
R has really done well.
Internally and so having this add-on
through RStudio is really a useful thing.
So just for that reason alone, it's
probably worth learning, shiny gadgets and
building that into your workflow.